And next, we have async.
Async was introduced by H.
HTML five, but actually came after defer, which we're going to see next, but I want to first talk
about async.
Remember, there are JavaScript files all synchronous.
Well, the async attribute signals to the browser to load JavaScript asynchronously basically is doing
the browser to fetch the script when resources become available, as opposed to just pausing the HMO
passing completely.
Let's now look at what this looks like.
Our HTML parser begins passing out foul line by line.
But this is a cool thing with async.
It doesn't pause the passing when the file is being sent.
The browser can do this with additional resources in the background.
From previous examples, you would have seen it when the browser hits that script tank, it blocks the
browser from doing its thing.
In other words, it stops the browser from becoming responsive and usable.
So by adding this async attribute, we avoid this problem altogether.
The browser can still run separate processes in the background, like fetching files.
We're going to see the shortly, so that's async.
Let's get back into it.
It's only during the execution phase that the possible completely stop, and once that execution is
finished, obviously you can continue passing document and in the dome contain loaded event can fire.
Although this casualness in running your code seems pretty awesome, you must realize that your scripts
marked as async will not always run an order.
So what this means is that you could have a case with several scripts marked with async or run in order
that's different than what they were specified in your markup.
The only guarantee we have when we mark our JavaScript files with async is that they will start running
at some mysterious point before the load event gets fired.
So bear in mind, some of these async scripts can actually be executed before the Dom content loaded
event files and also after the Dom Content Loaded event files.
This is an important point to grasp.
Now I want us to look at async, and let's just start at exactly the same page that we had before,
but now we're not placing JavaScript at the bottom.
So now we're using.
The async attribute and the H1 header, we can just say.
This is using the async and using async is incredibly simple.
All we have to do is add an attribute called the MMMMMMM async.
Very intuitive, right?
So all we have to do is go to our external script tags and we need to add the word async.
And there you go, the signals to the browser that it most features resources in the background, preload
them.
So in our code is ready to execute them daily.
It's all that async does.
And remember, it can start at any time for when the pulse of first starts passing you, Jamal, all
the way to the load of it.
OK, this is what async does.
So let's see what would you expect to happen here?
Let's find out.
Let's load up page.
And what's awesome is that our external one JavaScript file has worked because the heading to tag is
read and our external two files work because the HD tag is blue, so that's very cool.
Now, before we expect our console log, I want you to think about what you would expect to happen.
So let's go back to our file.
What would you expect to happen?
We'll remember what the async does.
The async is for non-critical scripts.
We're trying to improve our copy process, our critical rendering path process and adding this async
attribute tells the browser can fetch the files in the background.
And when it has big capacity, it can execute those files.
So you have no control on exactly when it's going to be executed.
But here it will place these as lower priority than the other scripts in your document, for example,
do you see that in line scripts, the console log in lane one and console log in line two and console
log in line three?
Well, because we've added async, I would expect those in line console logs to be displayed first and
only after that's done.
Will the async scripts get executed, so let's see if that occurred.
I hope I'm right.
Otherwise, it's going to be awkward.
This is awkward.
So let's inspect the documents.
And let's go to the console in line one in line to in line three and an external one, an external to
exactly what I was just expecting.
So this that's all working as expected.
Now let's assess the performance again.
And again, let's start profiling and reloading this page, let's wait.
And now we got the zoom in on the area of importance, and now we can start searching for those events,
right, we can go on to event log and we can look for the dumb content loaded event.
And how long has it taken now?
Less, right?
One hundred and fifty four point three milliseconds?
And what about our paint?
Well, let's look at our paint.
It's the second point here.
Again, you can't see it because I'm in the way.
You mean, just remove myself.
There you go.
You can see that the second paint is the one that has both the red and the blue take.
So we know all our JavaScript has been executed.
Well, how long is this taken?
Let's take in two hundred and twenty five point four milliseconds.
Remember this number and the last one that we want to look at is the load of eight.
And here we can see that it's taken 273 milliseconds to seventy three point eight milliseconds.
A. It's just been cut off on the screen a little bit, but you're just going to have to trust me that
that's exactly what it is.
So again, remember this number?